Section on sending metrics to STF and Gnocchi (#196)
infrawatch/documentation: doc-Service-Telemetry-Framework/modules/proc_configuring-gnocchi-metrics.adoc

    OS::TripleO::Services::GnocchiStatsd: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/gnocchi/gnocchi-statsd-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhApi: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-api-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhEvaluator: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-evaluator-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhNotifier: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-notifier-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhListener: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-listener-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::PankoApi: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/deprecated/panko/panko-api-container-puppet.yaml

parameter_defaults:
    CeilometerEnableGnocchi: true
    CeilometerEnablePanko: false
    GnocchiArchivePolicy: 'high'
    GnocchiBackend: 'rbd'
    GnocchiRbdPoolName: 'metrics'

    EventPipelinePublishers: ['gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high']
    PipelinePublishers: ['gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high']
----

> . Add the environment file `publish-to-gnocchi.yaml` to the deployment command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the environment file `publish-to-gnocchi.yaml` to the deployment command. Replace <other-argruments> with files that are applicable to your environment:
```

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----

> $ openstack overcloud deploy <other arguments>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
$ openstack overcloud deploy <other-arguments>
```

= Sending metrics to Gnocchi and to {ProjectShort}

[role="_abstract"]

> To send metrics to {Project} ({ProjectShort}} and gnocchi simultaneously, you must include another configuration file to your deployment. 
> mentioned above.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To send metrics to {Project} ({ProjectShort}} and gnocchi simultaneously, you must include an environment file to your deployment to enable an additional publisher.
```

.Prerequisites

> * You have created a file that contains the connection configuration of the AMQ Interconnect for the overcloud to the {ProjectShort} deployment. For more information, see xref:configuring-the-stf-connection-for-the-overcloud[].
> 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* You have created a file that contains the connection configuration of the {MessageBus} for the overcloud to {ProjectShort}. For more information, see xref:configuring-the-stf-connection-for-the-overcloud[].

```

.Procedure

> . Create a configuration file named `publish-to-gnocchi.yaml` in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Create an environment file named `gnocchi-connectors.yaml` in the
```

    OS::TripleO::Services::GnocchiStatsd: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/gnocchi/gnocchi-statsd-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhApi: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-api-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhEvaluator: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-evaluator-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhNotifier: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-notifier-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhListener: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-listener-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::PankoApi: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/deprecated/panko/panko-api-container-puppet.yaml

parameter_defaults:
    CeilometerEnableGnocchi: true
    CeilometerEnablePanko: false
    GnocchiArchivePolicy: 'high'
    GnocchiBackend: 'rbd'
    GnocchiRbdPoolName: 'metrics'

    EventPipelinePublishers: ['gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high']
    PipelinePublishers: ['gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high']
----

> . Add the environment file `publish-to-gnocchi.yaml` to the deployment command. Replace <other-argruments> with files that are applicable to your environment:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Add the environment file `gnocchi-connectors.yaml` to the deployment command. Replace <other-argruments> with files that are applicable to your environment:
```

+
[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----
$ openstack overcloud deploy <other-arguments>
  --templates /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates \
  --environment-file <...other-environment-files...> \
  --environment-file /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/environments/metrics/ceilometer-write-qdr.yaml \
  --environment-file /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/environments/enable-stf.yaml \
  --environment-file /home/stack/stf-connectors.yaml \

>   --environment-file /home/stack/publish-to-gnocchi.yaml

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  --environment-file /home/stack/gnocchi-connectors.yaml
```

----

. Verification: To verify that the configuration was successful, verify the content
of the file `/var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/ceilometer/etc/ceilometer/pipeline.yaml` on a Controller
node:

[source,yaml]
----
sources:
    - name: meter_source
      meters:
          - "*"
      sinks:
          - meter_sink
sinks:
    - name: meter_sink
      publishers:
          - gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high
          - notifier://172.17.1.35:5666/?driver=amqp&topic=metering
----
Important here is that publishers contain both notifier and gnocchi

> sections.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

= Sending metrics to Gnocchi and to {ProjectShort}

[role="_abstract"]

> In order to send metrics to STF and at the same time to gnocchi, the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To send metrics to {Project} ({ProjectShort}} and gnocchi simultaneously, you must include another configuration file to your deployment. 
```

> following templates have to be added in addition to the templates

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

mentioned above.

.Prerequisites

> An OpenStack environment file was created, see xref:configuring-the-stf-connection-for-the-overcloud[].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
*  You have created a file that contains the connection configuration of the AMQ Interconnect for the overcloud to the {ProjectShort} deployment. For more information, see xref:configuring-the-stf-connection-for-the-overcloud[].
```

.Procedure

. Create a configuration file named `publish-to-gnocchi.yaml` in the
`/home/stack` directory.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

    OS::TripleO::Services::GnocchiStatsd: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/gnocchi/gnocchi-statsd-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhApi: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-api-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhEvaluator: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-evaluator-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhNotifier: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-notifier-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::AodhListener: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/aodh/aodh-listener-container-puppet.yaml
    OS::TripleO::Services::PankoApi: /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/deployment/deprecated/panko/panko-api-container-puppet.yaml

parameter_defaults:
    CeilometerEnableGnocchi: true
    CeilometerEnablePanko: false
    GnocchiArchivePolicy: 'high'
    GnocchiBackend: 'rbd'
    GnocchiRbdPoolName: 'metrics'

    EventPipelinePublishers: ['gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high']
    PipelinePublishers: ['gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high']
----

> The template should be added to the overcloud deploy command.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Add the environment file `publish-to-gnocchi.yaml` to deployloyment command:
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
```

[source,bash,options="nowrap",subs="+quotes"]
----

> openstack overcloud deploy <other arguments>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# openstack overcloud deploy <other arguments>
```

  --templates /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates \
  --environment-file <...other-environment-files...> \
  --environment-file /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/environments/metrics/ceilometer-write-qdr.yaml \
  --environment-file /usr/share/openstack-tripleo-heat-templates/environments/enable-stf.yaml \
  --environment-file /home/stack/stf-connectors.yaml \
  --environment-file /home/stack/publish-to-gnocchi.yaml
----

> After the deployment successfully finished, to verify the configuration was successful, verify the content

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Verification: To verify that the configuration was successful, verify the content
```

> of the file `/var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/ceilometer/etc/ceilometer/pipeline.yaml` on a controller

Reviewer: ```suggestion
of the file `/var/lib/config-data/puppet-generated/ceilometer/etc/ceilometer/pipeline.yaml` on a Controller
```

node:

[source,yaml]
----
sources:
    - name: meter_source
      meters:
          - "*"
      sinks:
          - meter_sink
sinks:
    - name: meter_sink
      publishers:
          - gnocchi://?filter_project=service&archive_policy=high
          - notifier://172.17.1.35:5666/?driver=amqp&topic=metering
----

> Important here is that publishers contain both notifier and gnocchi

Reviewer: ```suggestion
+
Ensure that the `publishers` section of the file contains information for both notifier and gnocchi.
```

Reviewer: @mrunge Thanks for accepting the other suggestions. This one is minor but just have a quick check to ensure the rewrite hasn't lost anything.
